hey guys hi ma do you know the saying
monkey-see monkey-do but how about
orangutan see orangutan dude if that
holds true this little guy should learn
how to get a tasty treat just by
watching mom one of the questions that
we were looking at as individuals is how
do they learn from one another and how
does this relate to group behaviors that
we see in the wild with support for the
National Science Foundation
primatologist Marietta Tendo is studying
these primates at Zoo Atlanta to better
understand how our distant ate cousins
watch and learn what's interesting and
unique about orangutans compared to
humans or even other great apes is the
fact that there's what we call solitary
but social which means that individuals
aside from the mother offspring
interaction will only have limited times
during the week or even months where
they spend in affiliation with other
orangutans close it orangutangs in the
wild are difficult to observe so Dindo
designed an experiment with captive
animals she demonstrates it for us using
this orangutan named madhu who has
figured out she needs to sly not lift
the door to get a treat little do mati
is paying close attention but in this
case big momma madhu is so dominant she
mostly keeps him at bay in the actual
study Dindo found equally matched
orangutangs
are superb copycats but only when it
serves their purposes it's known from
other research studies that apes won't
actually imitate unnecessary actions if
they know it's unnecessary
so does this orangutan behavior tell us
anything about how much humans have
evolved Dindo says studies show that
humans aren't nearly as selective will a
peach other just to be part of the group
with humans what we see is that people
want to do as others do and this starts
around three years of age when we start
identifying ourselves with others so
when it comes to following the crowd
who's more on the ball the humans or the
Apes Dindo says it really depends on
your point of view is it intelligent to
be as others when it's so integral to
our society the cultural norms and doing
as others do
then yes it's very smart to do but if
you're not going to want to waste your
resources and you want to get to your
food fast that too is very smart so it
really depends on where you're coming
from in this case just making the effort
to follow the leader finally paid off
for du body for science nation I'm Miles
O'Brien